Christopher Torralba
Section J
9/1/15
Assignment 1 - Algorithms

Password Algorithm
1. Position yourself at the beginning of the password
2. Set character count to 0, set non-alphabetic character to false, set
digit to false, set uppercase alphabetic character to false
3. If there are no more characters and digits in the password, go to step 7
4. Read character/digit, if it is a non-alphabetic character set
non-alphabetic character to true, if it is a digit set digit to true, if it
is an uppercase alphabetic character set uppercase alphabetic character as
true.
5. Move position to next character, increment the character count by 1.
6. Repeat steps 3-5
7. When Non-alphabetic character, digit, and uppercase alphabetic character
are set to true, and character count is greater than 7 mark as valid,
otherwise mark as invalid.

Dog Algorithm
1. Set doggy treats = 4
2. Look at your wrist watch
3. If time is at 7am-8pm go to step 3, otherwise place him inside the
neighbors house.
4. If time is at either 10am-noon or 2pm-2:10pm, or if a stranger decides to
come visit, throw a doggy treat to a nearby tree and chain the dog to the
tree until the mailman/lawn keeper/stranger leaves. Each time decrease doggy
treats by 1. When having to use more than one doggy treat within an hour due
to strangers, instead of giving the dog another doggy treat and chaining
him to a tree, place him inside until the mailman/lawn keeper/stranger
leaves. When doggy treats = 0, place him inside whenever a mailman/lawn
keeper/stranger is coming.
5. Otherwise place the dog outside.
6. Anytime the dog shows signs of needing water, give him fresh water.
7. Whenever dog shows signs of needing to go to the bathroom, put him
outside until hes done. If already outside do nothing to the dog until hes
done.
8. Repeat steps 2-7

Lexicographic Difference Algorithm
1. Identify the two words
2. Position yourself at the beginning of the two words
3. If there is no more characters in either words mark a "null character" to
the corresponding word and go to step 7.
4. If the two letters are the same in both capitilization and letter move
your position to the next letter.
5. When there are two different letters or capitalization go on to step 7
6. Repeat steps 2-5
7. Let A=65, B=666,...Z=90 also let a=97, b=98...z=122 and "null
character"=0
8. Take the value of the two different letters and subtract them and then
take the absolute value of the solution.
